Terraform has its own configuration language,
HashiCorp Configuration Language or HCL,
that it uses primarily to declare resources.
The language uses configuration files with a.tf extension.
In this lesson, I'll be using HCL and terraform language interchangeably.
HCL is declarative, meaning you use it to describe
your desired infrastructure and terraform
will figure out how to create what you requested in the code.
So there's no need to worry about making sure all of your statements are
perfectly in order or that all of your files or expertly organized.
Well, it's great to organize your files in an orderly fashion to make
it easier for your team to communicate and understand your infrastructure,
Terraform doesn't need it.
You use a text editor to write and edit Terraform code and
most modern IDEs have Terraform or
HashiCorp Configuration Language syntax highlighting plug-ins available.
If you can't find the Terraform plug-in in your preferred IDE,
search for HCL and see if you can find it that way.
The set of files used to describe infrastructure in
Terraform is referred to as a Terraform configuration.
Believe it or not, a Terraform configuration for
a global enterprise can be contained in one large file.
Now that would be an example of a worst practice, but it can be done.
Terraform would organize all that code and produce the desired results.
It would be very hard to work that way and with this type of choice,
that would just be a matter of time before a big mistake was made.
Breaking up the Terraform configuration and organizing it into multiple files,
describing elements like network, compute,
and storage makes it easier to visualize,
understand, and update the code.
HCL syntax has a few elements that we need to understand for this lesson.
Blocks, arguments, and expressions.
Blocks are code containers for other content and usually
represent the configuration of an object like a resource.
Arguments assign values to a particular name,
where the argument name assigns the argument value,
and expressions are anything that returns a value like a string or a number.